# Dynamic Programming
Wherever we see a recursive solution that has repeated calls for the same inputs, we can optimize it using Dynamic Programming. 
- The idea is to simply store the results of subproblems, so that we do not have to re-compute them when needed later. 
- This simple optimization reduces time complexities from exponential to polynomial. 

The biggest question you have to answer when solving DP questions: "What are the subproblems?"

## Runtime
The typical runtime for DP problems is calculated as follows: # of subproblems * # time taken per subproblem

## Top-down DP with Memoization
We try to solve the bigger problem by recursively finding the solution to smaller sub-problems. 
- Whenever we solve a sub-problem, we cache its result (matrix or dictionary)
- This is known as **memoization**

Advantages:
- Computes only necessary values
- Arguably better in terms of time complexity compared to bottom-up DP

### Ways to implement a cache to store subproblems
1. In Python, decorate the function with `@lru_cache`.
2. In the recursive function itself, define a `memo = {}` and helper function `dp()`
3. Create a class variable known as `self.memo = {}`

## Bottom-up DP with Tabulation
Bottom-up DP is the opposite of top-down DP in that we begin from the base cases and work our way up.
- This is typically done by filling an n-dimensional table starting from some base cases. 
- Based on the results of the table, the solution to the original problem is revealed. 

Advantages:
- Solution can be space-optimized

## How to identify a DP Problem
1. The first characteristic that is common in DP problems is that the problem will ask for the optimum value (maximum or minimum) of something, or the number of ways there are to do something.
2. The second characteristic that is common in DP problems is that future "decisions" depend on earlier decisions. Deciding to do something at one step may affect the ability to do something in a later step.

## Framework for solving DP Problems
1. A function or data structure that will compute/contain the answer to the problem for every given state. 
    - In top-down, it is typically a dictionary (hash map) and recursion
    - In bottom-up, it is typically a matrix and nested for loops
2. Define the subproblems that you need to solve by identifying a set of variables that can sufficiently describe a scenario.
    - For example, for steps, being on the 6th step can be identify by some variable `i = 6`. 
3. Define a recurrence relation to transition between states (subproblems)
    - An equation that relates different subproblems together using other functions, e.g. `dp(x) = max(dp(x-1) + y, dp(x-2))`
4. Define the base cases

## Problems 
1. Climbing Stairs
2. Min Cost Climbing Stairs
3. Predict the Winner

